The next concept that I want to talk about is the long chain expression language or LCL.
So if I go to the LCL over here, you will notice that the long chain expression language takes a declarative
approach to build a new runnable from existing runnables.
So this means that you describe your what should happen rather than how it should happen, allowing
the lang chain to optimize the runtime execution of the chain.
This is quite cool, right?
Because as I told you, every single component over here are runnables.
Like even these two can be a runnable or even this.
This alone, like the template alone, can be a runnable, and this LM can alone be a runnable.
Because this, this are all going to call this invoke method or stream method or batch method.
So all these are runnables as well in an isolation.
So if we can run them in isolation, and if we can chain them together, like how the inputs and outputs
are.
Going to happen, then that's what is called as chaining mechanism.
That is what.
Exactly.
This particular, uh LCL is going to explain us.
So we often refer Runnables using.
LCL as a chain.
It is important to remember that the chain is a runnable and it implements the.
Full runnable interface.
What that really means is that the chain you can create for runnable.
And the chain itself is a runnable.
It's confusing.
Right.
Like that is how it is really.
So.
Basically you can chain two runnables and you can assign it to a variable called as chain.
And the chain now becomes a runnable because now runnables all the chain also implements the runnable
interface.
In turn.
That is what is really happening there.
And this chain can now be useful for running in parallel execution, asynchronous operation and simplify
the streaming operation because it is implementing the runnable Honourable interface or honourable interfaces,
like how we saw in our last lecture.
And because runnable interface supports asynchronous streaming and also batch execution.
Uh, over here, the same thing is going to happen for the LCL as well, because it does implement the
runnable interface.
So it is going to have all the features where the runnable interface has got.
So why should I use LCL in first place?
Well, LCL is an orchestration solution.
It allows Lang chain to handle runtime execution of chain in an optimized way, which is amazing because
while we have seen the user runs chain with hundreds of steps in production, we generally recommend
using LCL for simpler orchestration tasks when the application requires complex state management, branching
cycle, or multiple agents.
We recommend that.
Take advantage of the Lang graph.
Well, that is when we're going to be talking about Lang graph.
But you'll notice that at the moment we are not even a single chain.
But in production there are going to be hundreds of chain created.
And that is what is going to happen while we are going to start building things.
So I'll talk about the chain and this until you see the chain, you don't really get this whole concept.
So once we create the chain, you will we will get back to the same page again.
And I will explain you what this LCA is all about.
Let's get back to our code over here.
And what I've created at this time is I've created a new notebook for section two.
And, uh, and of course we have to just copy paste some of the code from here.
We don't really have to install this, uh, this details again because that is, that is already there.
But we do need to load the dot env file, uh, even here as well.
So I'm going to create a markdown.
So load env file because we are in a different directory.
So definitely that is something that we need to load uh over here.
And I'm going to paste the code.
We need to select the kernel.
Oh, there we go.
And let me try to run them all.
Look at that.
That's loading.
And now if I'm going to put a markdown over here to, um, create a LM object.
So we are going to create the LM object.
And that's going to be something that I'm going to be taking up from our code, which is this guy.
Right.
So I'm going to do this not copy this entire thing and put the code over here.
So that's going to create an LM object for me.
I'm gonna run that.
Amazing.
And now I'm going to start working with the chaining mechanism the first thing.
So I'm gonna put a markdown here I'm going to say understanding uh chaining.
And we of course will be talking about runnables in the same time.
Uh, so I'm going to say round numbers.
Okay.
Um, there we go.
So let me first create without chain because that is what we are doing in our last lecture as well.
I mean last section as well.
So I'm going to copy this.
Probably not this one really, but the one with the shorthand version.
Do we have that?
Unfortunately not.
Yeah I think we have the commented shorthand version so we can take that one.
Copy that.
Paste it over here.
Get rid of these.
We don't need them.
Uh, we of course need the prompt template.
So I'm going to get rid of these.
Amazing.
We don't need this.
Awesome.
So, as I told you, remember in the runnables discussion, this LM object is basically a runnable interface
itself.
So it's basically implements a runnable Because this chart, if you just go back over here, is going
to implement the base chat over here based chat model.
And this base chat model is in turn going to be implementing from the base langue model.
And you see that this base langue model is a runnable serializable as well.
So it is going to be calling the runnable serializable.
And basically this runnable serializable is going to be a runnable type.
Right.
If you just go keep digging down all the way, it is going to be runnable behind the scene.
So the same thing is going to happen for the prompt template as well.
So if I go to the chat prompt template, it is going to implement from the base chat prompt template.
And if you just go all the way to the base chat prompt template, it is going to be calling the runnable
serializable because it can support the, um, the serializable execution.
And it is going to be calling the renewables over there.
And if you're going to be calling the if you're going to be talking about the streaming that we were
discussing in our last section, the last lecture of the course, which is the stream, the stream also
is going to be calling the runnable if I'm not wrong.
So every single operation that you are seeing over here are going to be a runnable behind the scene
by nature.
Right.
So while this is a runnable, we can now run instead of doing this.
Like instead of you calling the prompt and then you call the invoke and then pass the prompt over here
instead of doing that operation that you are doing before, you can now pass or chain the output of
the prompt template, we can chain it to the LM as an input, because that is what you're going to essentially
do over here.
So what I'm really telling over here is instead of you writing this code for the invoke operation,
so you do a prompt dot invoke over here, and then you do an LM of invoke over here.
So you do two invoke operation.
Instead what you can do you can create a chain.
It can be any name.
But I'm just giving chain name.
That is a standard way of doing it.
And over here I'm just going to say I wanted to give the prompt look at that.
I'm using a pipe symbol here.
This is essentially a chaining operation that I'm doing.
This is a shorthand way of doing it.
In LCL.
You can just do this or there is something called there was something called as LM chain.
Uh, and this LM chain is kind of deprecated right now.
Nobody's really using it.
And even the team has told not to use it, uh, in the documentation.
So if you just go to the documentation, if you just search LM chain.
Look at that.
This is deprecated.
And there is a breaking change over here.
Uh, so LM chain has been set to removal for all 3.0 version.
So it's not anymore used.
Instead, they ask us to use like this.
Like a.
Number sequence which is prompt and LM right.
I will talk about the runnable.
Sequence runnable parallel and router and stuff.
But but yeah this is how we do it.
And now over here we are going to say prompt which is this prompt.
I'm going to give the input of the output of this prompt as an input to LM.
So that is the chaining mechanism that I'm doing over here.
So see look at that.
The code is so straightforward.
Instead of you doing quite a lot of different invoke here I'm not going to do this invoke at all.
And even this invoke that I'm doing I'm just going to create um, a prompt.
And then I'm going to be giving it to, uh, sorry, not even the prompt, really, because we don't
have to call the invoke.
I'm going to pass the prompt template And the LM.
But now you may ask Karthik, how do I now pass the the the variable, the input variable e and v to
this particular prompt because the prompt template won't receive any of the value.
Well guess what?
As I told you, this chain itself is a runnable.
Then there is this invoke method of course.
And now you can pass the exact same thing over here as well.
So I can just say E and V, uh, and I can pass local machine or machine.
So there we go.
So this two lines of code is now not even required because we don't even need to invoke it that way.
So that is a classical way of doing it, uh, without a chaining.
But now with chain, you see that this is how I do the chaining mechanism over here.
And I do an invoke pretty much like how I do for the rest of the numbers, I'm going to call this as
numbers because you know that it's a numbers already.
And if I try to run this particular code, this is just going to work like how it was working even before.
So now you have taken out the complexity of doing two invokes and creating the operation before.
Instead, you can now create one invoke to pass the value, and you can now chain and guess what?
You can keep chaining this any number of runners.
That is the power of this chaining mechanism itself.
And we'll be talking about that like in a minute.
Like how we can do that in our next lecture.
But but guess what this is.
What is the the chaining mechanism that we're talking about over here.
This is how you do the chaining of your runnables in long chain.
So I hope you got the idea like how these are all is done.
And now if I go back to our um.
a Lang Smith over here.
Look at that.
We have got a runnable sequence this time because we're doing a sequence of operations.
So we have got a runnable sequence.
And this runnable sequence is telling me that we are calling an env or the input variable as local machine.
And now we are getting this particular output over here.
And also look at that.
We don't even have any message saying the, the human message or the system message like that, because
those things are going to be taken care over here in the next prompt.
Uh, next message over here.
Look at that.
So there is a chat prompt template, uh, which is this one.
And it has got the system and the human message.
And then it goes to the chat Olama, uh, which is going to be system human.
And then there is a runnable sequence over here.
These are the three things belonging to this particular operation that we are doing over here.
So that is how we can actually work with the chaining mechanism.